This zip archive has some useful command scripts for preparing data for processing. It also has a simple folder structure that
I have used for most of my lidar data processing. The Boundary folder won't be used by most folks. This folder structure is 
typically placed in a folder with a project area identifier. The AP_run folder is used as the primary output folder for 
AreaProcessor. The ground folder will have the ground models converted to FUSION's .dtm format. The Ground\USGS folder
is used to hold USGS 10m DEMs for the area (in FUSION's .dtm format) to provide ground data for areas outside the lidar 
boundary (some of the topographic metrics I create use a large search radius so areas outside the lidar boundary need 
ground data). The ReturnDensity folder will contain the return density layers needed for AreaProcessor's tiling logic.

The archive also has two example projection files in single-line format. This is the format required by the gdal_translate
utility. Some GIS functions create projection files in a multi-line format that doesn't work with gdal_translate.

The scripts for converting ground models and computing return density rasters rely on files containing a list of the ground models
(not in FUSION's .dtm format) and a separate file with a list of all LAS/LAZ files for the area. These list files can be created
using DOS commands or any other method that works for you. The goal is a text file that has a full path to a file on each line
of the text file.

DOS Command to build list of ground models...this will get all GRID folders starting at the root level provided the folder
names start with "BE". Adjust the command as needed if this is not the case and change the drive letter as needed. For
GRID format, each folder contains several files but gdal_translate only needs the folder name.

dir /b /s G:\be*. >BEfilelist.txt

If you need to get models from several drives, append to the existing file like this (use ">>" instead or ">"):

dir /b /s G:\be*. >>BEfilelist.txt

For ground models in other formats (TIFF for example), you can use this command line to build a list of file names:

dir /b /s *.tif >BEfilelist.txt

You can do about the same thing to get a list of LAS files except you have to check the folder structure to see if there are
folders with separate LAS files containing only ground points. For Quantum jobs, there is usually an "ALL_POINTS" folder and
another folder for ground points (sometimes "GROUNDS" but not always). For multi-delivery acquisitions, you can't count on a
consistent folder structure so you have to be more careful when "automating" the list creation. As a last resort, you can 
list everything and then edit the list.

For LAS files:
dir /b /s *.las >LASfilelist.txt

Once you have the list files, you can convert groundmodels using the DoConvertDEM.bat script. It will call the Convert_DEM.bat
file for each ground model in the BEfilelist.txt file. Convert_DEM.bat converts the ground models from their original format 
into ASCII raster format, use FUSION's ASCII2DTM utility to convert the ASCII raster files into FUSION's .dtm format, and split
the resulting .dtm file into smaller chunks for more efficient memory use while processing. The splitting step may not be 
necessary when using the 64-bit version of the command line tools on a computer with more than 2Gb of RAM per processing stream.

Note that the Convert_DEM.bat file assumes the units for the ground models are feet. Change the command line for ASCII2DTM (the 
part with F F 0 0 0 0) as needed for your data.

For the return density grids, the DoReturnDensity.bat script will create a 100 unit grid for all the point files listed in 
LASfilelist.txt. This resolution was intended for data with horizontal units of meters. Change the cell size to 330 for data in feet.